Disease Name: ACUTE SINUSITIS
Overview: Acute sinusitis causes the spaces inside the nose, known as sinuses, to become inflamed and swollen. Acute sinusitis makes it hard for the sinuses to drain. Mucus builds up.
Acute sinusitis can make it hard to breathe through the nose. The area around the eyes and the face might feel swollen. There might be throbbing face pain or a headache.The common cold is the usual cause of acute sinusitis. Most often, the condition clears up within a week to 10 days unless there's also an infection caused by bacteria, called a bacterial infection. Home remedies might be all that's needed to treat acute sinusitis. Sinusitis that lasts more than 12 weeks even with medical treatment is called chronic sinusitis.

Symptoms: Acute sinusitis symptoms often include:Thick, yellow or greenish mucus from the nose, known as a runny nose, or down the back of the throat, known as postnasal drip.
Blocked or stuffy nose, known as congestion. This makes it hard to breathe through the nose.
Pain, tenderness, swelling and pressure around the eyes, cheeks, nose or forehead that gets worse when bending over.
Other Signs and Symptoms include:
Ear pressure.
Headache.
Aching in the teeth.
Changed sense of smell.
Cough.
Bad breath.
Tiredness.
Loss of smell and taste.
Fever.

Causes: Acute sinusitis often happens when you’re getting over a cold. Your sinuses are a series of connected hollow spaces behind your cheekbones, forehead and nose. Air that comes in through your nose travels through your sinuses on its way to your lungs.
Your sinuses are lined with tissue. They also make mucus that keeps the inside of your nose moist. Mucus flowing out of your sinuses also takes care of debris like bacteria or viruses that air may carry into your nose.
Sinusitis happens when bacteria and viruses settle in your sinuses, making their tissues swell. At the same time, your sinuses make more mucus. Normally, mucus flowing away from your sinuses washes away intruders. But when your sinus tissues swell, that mucus becomes trapped.Your sinuses become blocked and fill up with fluid, making your nose feel clogged up or stuffy. Your face may feel tender to the touch and you may develop a sinus headache.

Risk Factors: The following can raise the risk of getting sinusitis:
Hay fever or another allergy that affects the sinuses.
A common cold that affects the sinuses.
A problem inside the nose, such as a deviated nasal septum, nasal polyps or tumors.
A medical condition such as cystic fibrosis or an immune system disorder such as HIV/AIDS.
Being around smoke, either from smoking or being around others who smoke, known as secondhand smoke.

Complications: Infections that started acute sinusitis may spread into areas of your nervous system, like your brain, eyes or spinal cord.

Preventions: Take these steps to help lower your risk of getting acute sinusitis:
Stay well. Try to stay away from people who have colds or other infections. Wash your hands often with soap and water, such as before meals.
Manage allergies. Work with your health care provider to keep symptoms under control.
Avoid cigarette smoke and polluted air. Tobacco smoke and other pollutants can irritate lungs and inside the nose, known as nasal passages.
Use a machine that adds moisture to the air, known as a humidifier. If the air in your home is dry, adding moisture to the air may help prevent sinusitis. Be sure the humidifier stays clean and free of mold with regular, complete cleaning.

Prescription/Medications: 
Acute sinusitis often goes away without prescription medication. It may take some time for your sinuses to clear but there many things you can do to ease sinus pressure:
Start your day with a saline nasal spray to clear congestion if you wake up with a stuffy nose. Another option is using a neti pot to flush away nasal congestion.
Take a shower. The warm steam may clear your sinuses and ease sinus pressure. Don’t have time for a shower? Wring out a washcloth soaked in hot water and drape it over your face.
Keep a humidifier or vaporizer at the head of your bed. That way, you’re getting a steady stream of steam that moisturizes the air you breathe in as you sleep.
Drink extra fluids, including hot fluids like water with lemon or tea.
Try over-the-counter nasal decongestants. But be sure to check with your healthcare provider. They may recommend you only use medicated sprays for a few days.
Get extra rest. Your body is doing its best to fight off infection, and getting more rest than usual will help.

Medications: 
Saline nasal spray: Salt water sprayed into the nose many times a day rinses the inside of the nose.
Nasal corticosteroids: These nasal sprays help prevent and treat swelling. Examples include fluticasone (Flonase Allergy Relief, Flonase Sensimist Allergy Relief, others), budesonide (Rhinocort Allergy), mometasone and beclomethasone (Beconase AQ, Qnasl, others).
Decongestants: These medicines are available with and without a prescription. They come in liquids, tablets and nasal sprays. Use nasal decongestants for only a few days because they may cause worse stuffiness, known as rebound congestion.
Allergy medicines: For sinusitis caused by allergies, using allergy medicines might lessen allergy symptoms.
Pain relievers: Try acetaminophen (Tylenol, others), ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin IB, others) or aspirin available without a prescription.

Warning:  If your sinusitis symptoms are severe, persistent, or accompanied by a high fever, severe facial pain, or vision changes, consult a healthcare professional immediately.