Disease Name: ALLERGIC RHINITIS(hay fever)
Overview: Hay fever, also called allergic rhinitis, causes cold-like symptoms. These may include a runny nose, itchy eyes, congestion, sneezing and sinus pressure. But unlike a cold, hay fever isn't caused by a virus. Hay fever is caused by an allergic response to a harmless outdoor or indoor substance the body identifies as harmful (allergen).
Symptoms: Symptoms includes Stuffy nose due to blockage or congestion, Runny nose or post nasal drainage, Itching usually in the nose, mouth, eyes, or throat, Red and watery eyes, Puffy, swollen eyelids, Sneezing, Cough, Decreased sense of smell or taste.

Causes: Allergic Rhinitis(hay fever) Allergic rhinitis occurs when your body’s immune system reacts to an irritant in the air. The irritants (allergens) are so tiny that you can easily inhale them through your nose or mouth. Allergens are harmless to most people. But if you have hay fever, your immune system thinks the allergen is intruding. Your immune system tries to protect your body by releasing natural chemicals into your bloodstream. The main chemical is called histamine. It causes mucous membranes in your nose, eyes and throat to become inflamed and itchy as they work to eject the allergen from your body.
other causes includes Dust mites that live in carpets, drapes, bedding and furniture, Pollen from trees, grass and weeds, Pet dander (tiny flakes of dead skin cells), Mold spores, Cockroaches (their saliva and waste).

Risk Factors: The following can increase your risk of developing hay fever:
Having other allergies or asthma.
Having a condition called atopic dermatitis or eczema, which makes your skin irritated and itchy.
Having a blood relative, such as a parent or sibling, with allergies or asthma.
Living or working in an environment that constantly exposes you to allergens — such as animal dander or dust mites.
Being exposed to smoke and strong odors that irritate the lining of the nose.

Complications: complications with Allergic Rhinitis(hay fever)include Reduced quality of life, Poor sleep, Worsening asthma, Sinusitis, Ear infection.

Preventions: There’s no way to prevent hay fever, but lifestyle changes can help you live with allergies. You can relieve hay fever symptoms by avoiding irritants as much as possible. To reduce symptoms, you should:
Avoid touching your face and rubbing your eyes or nose.
Close windows in your home and car during the spring, summer and early fall when pollen counts are higher.
Put covers on pillows, mattresses and box springs to protect against dust mites.
Keep pets off couches and beds, and close doors to bedrooms you don’t want them to enter.
Use filters in your vacuum cleaner and air conditioner to reduce the amount of allergens in the air.
Wash your hands often, especially after playing with pets.
Wear a hat and sunglasses to protect your eyes from pollen when you’re outside. Change your clothes as soon as you come indoors.

Prescription/Medications: 
Stay indoors as much as possible when pollen counts are at their peak, usually during the midmorning and early evening (this may vary according to plant pollen), and when wind is blowing pollens around.
Avoid using window fans that can draw pollens and molds into the house.
Wear glasses or sunglasses when outdoors to minimize the amount of pollen getting into your eyes.
Don’t hang clothing outdoors to dry; pollen may cling to towels and sheets.
Try not to rub your eyes; doing so will irritate them and could make your symptoms worse.
Keep windows closed and use air conditioning in your car and home. Make sure to keep your air conditioning unit clean.
Reduce exposure to dust mites, especially in the bedroom. Use “mite-proof” covers for pillows, comforters and duvets, and mattresses and box springs. Wash your bedding frequently, using hot water (at least 130 degrees Fahrenheit).
To limit exposure to mold, keep the humidity in your home low (between 30 and 50 percent) and clean your bathrooms, kitchen, and basement regularly. Use a dehumidifier, especially in the basement and in other damp, humid places, and empty and clean it often. If mold is visible, clean it with mild detergent and a 5 percent bleach solution as directed by an allergist.
Clean floors with a damp rag or mop, rather than dry-dusting or sweeping.

Medications: Many allergens that trigger allergic rhinitis are airborne, so you can’t always avoid them. If your symptoms can’t be well-controlled by simply avoiding triggers, your allergist may recommend medications that reduce nasal congestion, sneezing, and an itchy and runny nose. They are available in many forms – oral tablets, liquid medication, nasal sprays and eyedrops. Some medications may have side effects, so discuss these treatments with your allergist so they can help you live the life you want.
Nasal corticosteroids: These nasal sprays help prevent and treat the nasal stuffiness (congestion) and the itchy, runny nose caused by hay fever. For many people, nasal sprays are the most effective hay fever medications, and they're often the first type of medication recommended.
Antihistamines: Antihistamines work by blocking a symptom-causing chemical (histamine) released by your immune system during an allergic reaction. Antihistamines can help with itching, sneezing and a runny nose but have less of an effect on congestion. These preparations are usually given as pills (orally). However, there are also antihistamine nasal sprays that can relieve nasal symptoms. Antihistamine eye drops can help relieve eye itchiness and irritation.Common side effects of antihistamines are dry mouth, nose and eyes. Some oral antihistamines may make you sleepy. Other side effects of oral antihistamines can include restlessness, headaches, changes in appetite, trouble sleeping, and problems with blood pressure and urinating.
Decongestants: Decongestants reduce nasal stuffiness and pressure from swelling. Because they do not relieve other symptoms of hay fever, they're sometimes combined with other medications such as antihistamines.
Decongestants are available as liquids, tablets and nasal sprays. They are also available with and without a prescription.
Cromolyn sodium: Cromolyn sodium can help relieve hay fever symptoms by preventing the release of histamine. This medication is most effective if you start using it before you have symptoms. Cromolyn sodium is available as a nonprescription nasal spray that must be used several times a day. It's also available in eye drop form with a prescription. Cromolyn sodium doesn't have serious side effects.
Nasal ipratropium: Available in a prescription nasal spray, ipratropium helps relieve severe runny nose by preventing the glands in the nose from making too much mucus. It's not effective for treating congestion, itching or sneezing.
Mild side effects include dry nose, nosebleeds, dry and irritated eyes, and sore throat. Rarely, the medication can cause more-severe side effects, such as blurred vision, dizziness and trouble urinating. This drug is not recommended if you have glaucoma or an enlarged prostate.
Saline nasal spray: Saline nasal sprays can moisten dry nasal passages and thin nasal mucus. You don't need a prescription and you can use them as often as needed.