Disease Name: ANOSMIA(Loss of smell)
Overview: Anosmia is the partial or complete loss of the sense of smell. This loss may be temporary or permanent. Common conditions that irritate the nose’s lining, such as allergies or a cold, can lead to temporary anosmia.People with anosmia may not be able to fully taste foods and may lose interest in eating. This can lead to weight loss or malnutrition. Anosmia can also lead to depression because it may impair one’s ability to smell or taste pleasurable foods.It’s usually a temporary side effect of a cold or sinus infection.

Symptoms: You can lose your sense of smell suddenly or over time. Early on, you may notice familiar scents are different, like a favorite cologne that seems to smell less potent than it did before.
Causes: Anosmia is frequently caused by a swelling or blockage in the nose that prevents odors from getting to the top of the nose. Anosmia is sometimes caused by a problem with the system that sends signals from the nose to the brain.
Below are the main causes of anosmia:
sinus infections
common colds
smoking
Covid-19
the flu, or influenza
allergies (allergic rhinitis)
chronic congestion not related to allergies (nonallergic rhinitis)
A cold is the most common cause of partial and temporary loss of smell. In these cases, the anosmia will go away on its own.

Risk Factors: Here are some risk factors that can increase your chances of developing anosmia:
Upper respiratory infections (URIs):This is the most common cause of temporary anosmia. The common cold, flu, and sinusitis can all cause inflammation and swelling in the nasal passages, which can interfere with your sense of smell.
Allergies:Allergies can cause inflammation in the nose, which can also lead to anosmia.
Smoking:Smoking can damage the olfactory nerves, which are responsible for smell.
Nasal polyps:These are benign (noncancerous) growths in the nose that can block the nasal passages and interfere with smell.

Complications: People with anosmia may lose interest in food and eating, leading to malnutrition and weight loss.People with anosmia should make sure to have functioning smoke alarms in their homes at all times. They should also be cautious with food storage and the use of natural gas because they may have trouble detecting spoiled foods and gas leaks.

Preventions: You can’t always prevent anosmia because so many things can cause it. In general, protecting yourself from colds and other respiratory conditions may reduce your risk of losing your sense of smell.

Prescription/Medications:
If nasal congestion from a cold or allergy is the cause of anosmia, treatment is usually not needed, and the problem will get better on its own. Short-term use of over-the-counter decongestants may open up your nasal passages so that you can breathe easier
Medications: Medications include:
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray 50 mcg:  Administer two sprays in each nostril once daily.
Cetirizine 10 mg Tablets: Take one tablet by mouth once daily.
Saline Nasal Spray: Use two sprays in each nostril as needed for nasal moisture, up to six times a day.
Olfactory Training: Essential Oils for Olfactory Training: Obtain essential oils in the following scents: rose, eucalyptus, lemon.

Warning: If you are experiencing anosmia, particularly if it is sudden, persistent, or accompanied by other concerning symptoms (such as fever, headache, or facial pain), consult a healthcare professional for proper diagnosis and treatment.

Disclaimer: The information provided may not be accurate. Medibot is not liable for any inaccuracies.
