Disease Name: NOSEBLEED (Epistaxis)
Overview: “Epistaxis” is the medical term for a nosebleed. A nosebleed, meaning a loss of blood from the tissue that lines the inside of your nose, can occur in one or both nostrils. Usually, it only affects one nostril.Your nose has many tiny blood vessels in it. These vessels help warm and moisten the air you breathe. But they lie close to the inner surface of your nose. When air moves through your nose, it can dry and irritate your blood vessels. This makes them very easy to injure or break, causing a nosebleed.
Although bothersome, most nosebleeds aren’t serious.
Symptoms: Symptoms include bleeding from one or both nostrils and bleeding down the back of the throat with spitting, coughing, or vomiting of blood.Prolonged or recurrent nosebleeds may cause anemia.After a big nosebleed, dark or tarry bowel movements mean that a large amount of blood was swallowed.
Causes: Nosebleed can be caused by Irritation due to allergies, colds, sneezing or sinus problems,Very cold or dry air,Blowing the nose very hard, or picking the nose, Injury to nose, including a broken nose, or an object stuck in the nose, Chemical irritants including medicines or drugs that are sprayed or snorted, Using decongestant nasal sprays excessively, Inhaling drugs or cocaine
Frequent nosebleeds can be caused by a number of medical conditions, including tumours, excessive blood pressure, and bleeding disorders. In addition, blood thinners may be the cause if you frequently get nosebleeds.
Risk Factors: Common risk factors for nosebleeds include living in a hot, dry indoor climate, A deviated septum the wall between the two nostrils is shifted to one side (deviated), air flow in the nostrils is uneven. The altered airflow pattern causes the skin of the nasal septum, on the narrower side, to become dry and cracked, increasing the risk of bleeding, Colds and allergies such as upper respiratory tract infections and allergies cause inflammation in the nose, which can increase the risk of bleeding, Exposure to irritating chemicals is the primary cause such as cigarette smoke or even secondhand cigarette smoke, Diseases like kidney failure, high blood pressure, thrombocytopenia (low levels of blood platelets necessary for clotting), and genetic bleeding disorders, Medications that interfere with blood clotting that are prescription blood-thinners (anticoagulants) and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as aspirin and ibuprofen (Aleve, Motrin Etc).
Complications: While most nosebleeds are minor and stop on their own, sometimes complications can arise as Excessive blood loss: This can be dangerous, especially for people with anemia or other underlying health conditions, Difficulty breathing: Heavy bleeding can block the nasal passages and make it difficult to breathe.

Preventions: You can help to prevent nosebleeds by:
Not picking your nose
Being gentle whenever you blow your nose
Not smoking
Using a humidifier if your indoor climate is dry during the winter months
Using a nonprescription saline nasal spray to moisturize the inside of your nose
Applying a dab of nasal gel or petroleum jelly to the inside of your nostrils before bedtime
Avoiding facial trauma by wearing a seatbelt and shoulder harness in the car and by using well-fitting headgear to protect your face during contact sports, such as football or karate
Using protective equipment to avoid breathing irritating chemicals at work.

Prescription/Medications: Use following steps to stop nosebleed:
Sit upright and lean your body and your head slightly forward. This will keep the blood from running down your throat, which can cause nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. (Don’t lay flat or put your head between your legs.)
Breathe through your mouth.
Use a tissue or damp washcloth to catch the blood.
Use your thumb and index finger to pinch together the soft part of your nose. Make sure to pinch the soft part of the nose against the hard bony ridge that forms the bridge of your nose. Squeezing at or above the bony part of your nose won’t put pressure where it can help stop the bleeding.
Keep pinching your nose continuously for at least five minutes before checking if the bleeding has stopped. If your nose is still bleeding, continue squeezing your nose for another 10 minutes.
If you’d like, apply an ice pack to the bridge of your nose to further help narrow blood vessels (which will slow the bleeding) and provide comfort. This isn’t a necessary step, but you can try it.
You can spray an over-the-counter decongestant spray, such as oxymetazoline (Afrin®, Dristan®, Neo-Synephrine® or Vicks Sinex®) into the bleeding side of your nose and then apply pressure to your nose. You shouldn’t use these topical decongestant sprays over a long period. Doing so can cause an increase in the chance of a nosebleed.
After the bleeding stops, don’t bend over, strain and/or lift anything heavy. Don’t blow or rub your nose for several days.
Medications includes: 
Oxymetazoline (Afrin):A nasal spray that constricts blood vessels, reducing blood flow and bleeding.
Phenylephrine: Another nasal spray that helps constrict blood vessels to control bleeding.
Silver Nitrate: A chemical cauterizing agent applied to the bleeding vessel to stop the bleed.

Warning: Although seeing blood coming out of your nose can be alarming, most nosebleeds aren’t serious. You can usually manage them at home. However, you should have some cases of epistaxis checked by a healthcare provider. For instance, if you have frequent nosebleeds, see a provider. This could be an early sign of another medical issue that they’ll want to look into.
Some nosebleeds can start in the back of your nose. These cases of epistaxis usually involve large blood vessels resulting in heavy bleeding and can be dangerous. You’ll need medical attention for this type of bleed, especially if the bleeding occurs after an injury and the bleeding hasn’t stopped after 20 minutes of applying direct pressure to your nose.