Disease Name: Nonallergic rhinitis
Overview: Nonallergic rhinitis involves sneezing or a stuffy, drippy nose. It can be a long-term problem, and it has no clear cause. The symptoms are like those of hay fever, also called allergic rhinitis. But nonallergic rhinitis isn't caused by allergies.Nonallergic rhinitis can affect children and adults. But it's more common after age 20. Factors that trigger the symptoms vary from person to person.

Symptoms: Nonallergic rhinitis symptoms often come and go year-round. Your symptoms might include:
Stuffy or runny nose.
Sneezing.
Mucus in the throat.
Cough.
Nonallergic rhinitis most often doesn't cause an itchy nose, eyes or throat. That symptom is linked with allergies such as hay fever.

Causes: Nonallergic rhinitis happens when blood vessels in the nose expand. These blood vessels fill the tissue that lines the inside of the nose. Many things could cause this. For instance, the nerve endings in the nose might react to triggers too easily.
But any cause brings on the same result: swelling inside the nose, congestion or lots of mucus.
Other causes of Nonallergic rhintis include:
Car exhaust
Chlorine
Cigarette smoke
Cleaning solutions
Glues
Hair spray
Latex
Laundry detergents
Metal salts
Perfume
Smog
Wood dust

Risk Factors: Risk factors Include:
Breathing in some types of unclean air: Smog, exhaust fumes and tobacco smoke are a few of the things that can raise the risk of nonallergic rhinitis.
Being older than age 20. Most people who get nonallergic rhinitis are 20 or older: That makes it different from allergic rhinitis, which people often have when they're younger than 20.
Using nose sprays or drops for a long time: Don't use store-bought decongestant drops or sprays oxymetazoline (Afrin, Dristan, others) for more than a few days. A stuffy nose or other symptoms might get worse when the decongestant wears off. This is often called rebound congestion.
Getting pregnant or having periods: Congestion in the nose often gets worse during these times due to hormone changes.
Being exposed to fumes at work: In some lines of work, fumes from supplies can cause nonallergic rhinitis to start. Some common triggers include construction materials and chemicals. Fumes from compost also can be a trigger.
Some health problems: Some long-term health problems can cause nonallergic rhinitis or make it worse. These include diabetes and a problem that happens when the thyroid gland doesn't make enough thyroid hormone.

Complications: complications include:
Nasal polyps: These are soft growths that form on the tissue that lines the inside of the nose. Polyps also can form on the lining of the spaces inside the nose and head, called sinuses. Polyps are caused by swelling, also known as inflammation. They're not cancer. Small polyps might not cause problems. But larger ones can block the airflow through the nose. That makes it hard to breathe.
Sinusitis: This is swelling of the sinuses. Long-term congestion in the nose due to nonallergic rhinitis can raise the risk of sinusitis.
Trouble with daily life: Nonallergic rhinitis might affect your work or school/college works. You also might need to take time off when your symptoms flare.

Preventions: If you have nonallergic rhinitis, take steps to ease your symptoms and prevent flare-ups:
Learn your triggers: Find out what factors cause your symptoms or make them worse. That way you can stay away from them. Your health care provider can help you learn your triggers.
Don't use decongestant nose sprays or drops for too long: Using these medicines for more than a few days at a time can make your symptoms worse.
Get treatment that works: If you've tried a medicine that doesn't help enough, talk to your health care provider. A change to your treatment plan may be needed to prevent or ease your symptoms.

Prescriptions/Medications: 
Nonallergic rhinitis can't be cured. But symptoms can be controlled by:
Avoiding rhinitis triggers
Using home remedies such as nasal irrigation
Taking over-the-counter and prescription medications
Using a bioelectronic sinus device

Medications: Medications include:
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray 50 mcg: Two sprays in each nostril once daily.
Ipratropium Bromide Nasal Spray 0.06%: Two sprays in each nostril two to three times daily.
Saline Nasal Spray: Use two sprays in each nostril as needed for nasal moisture, up to six times a day.

Warning: If your nonallergic rhinitis symptoms are severe, persistent, or significantly impact your daily life, consult a healthcare professional for diagnosis and a personalized treatment plan.

Disclaimer: The information provided may not be accurate. Medibot is not liable for any inaccuracies.