Disease Name: NASAL CONGESTION(stuffy nose)
Overview: Nasal congestion happens when something irritates tissues lining the inside of your nose. The irritation sets off a chain reaction of inflammation, swelling and mucus production, making it hard to take in air through your nose. Nasal congestion typically clears after a few days, but congestion that lasts for a week or more may be a sign of an infection. Left untreated, nasal congestion may cause sinusitis, nasal polyps or middle ear infections.
Symptoms: Symptoms include Runny nose, Stuffed up nose, Sneezing,Feeling like your nose is blocked, Loss of smell, Loss of taste, Headache and pain if you also have a sinus infection, Snoring.
Causes: Anything that irritates the inside of the nose can cause a stuffy nose. Infections — such as colds, flu or sinusitis — and allergies often cause stuffy and runny noses. Irritants in the air, such as tobacco smoke, perfume, dust and car exhaust, also can cause these symptoms.Some people have noses that are stuffy and run all the time without a known reason. This is called nonallergic rhinitis or vasomotor rhinitis.
A polyp, an object such as a small toy stuck in the nose, or a tumor might cause the nose to run from only one side. Sometimes migraine-like headaches can cause a runny nose.
Other Causes includes:
Common cold
Flu
Sinus infection
Dry air
Hormonal changes
Medications etc.

Risk Factors: Risk factors for nasal congestion (stuffy nose) include Nasal polyps, Overuse of nasal sprays (decongestants), Pregnancy, Seasonal or other types of allergies, Structural abnormalities, such as a deviated septum, Weakened immune system Etc.
Complications: Inflammation from a stuffy nose, can sometimes cause complications, such as Middle ear infection, Nasal polyps, Sinus infection.
Nasal congestion at night can also cause difficulty sleeping and drowsiness or trouble concentrating during the day. Seek medical care for nasal congestion lasting more than 10 days or stuffy nose accompanied by fever, thick and yellow or green nasal discharge, or facial pain.

Preventions: There are steps you can take to reduce your risk of nasal congestion:
Wash your hands frequently to prevent the spread of germs, especially during cold and flu season.
Avoid allergens and irritants when possible.
Use a humidifier to add moisture to the air, especially during winter.
Drink plenty of fluids to stay hydrated and thin mucus.
Manage allergies with medication and avoidance strategies.

Prescriptions/Medications:
Some home remedies that may help with nasal congestion include:
Avoiding environmental triggers, such as allergens, chemicals and smoke.
Humidifier to help moisten the air.
Increasing fluid intake to help thin nasal secretions.
Nasal adhesive strips to help open up the nasal passages, especially to help you breathe better at night.
Salt water nasal irrigation.
Steam from a hot shower or vaporizer to moisten and break up congestion.
Medications include:
Sudafed (pseudoephedrine) is an oral decongestant used to relieve nasal or sinus congestion caused by the common cold, sinusitis, and respiratory allergies. Do not use Sudafed for longer than three days as it can also lead to rebound congestion.
Nasal decongestant sprays like Afrin (oxymetazoline) also provide short-term relief of a stuffy nose. They should also not be used for longer than three days due to the risk of rebound congestion (sometimes referred to as "nasal spray addiction").
Longer-term relief may be obtained with nasal steroid sprays like Flonase (fluticasone) or Nasonex (mometasone). Nasal steroids work by reducing inflammation in nasal or sinus tissues and provide rapid relief of congestion from hay fever and nasal polyps.
Some medications work better for congestion caused by allergies than for congestion caused by viruses. These include over-the-counter drugs like:
Allegra (fexofenadine)
Claritin (loratadine)
Zyrtec (cetirizine)
Benadryl (diphenhydramine)
These drugs are known as antihistamines because they block a chemical produced by the body, called histamine, that is responsible for allergy symptoms.

Warning: If your congestion is severe, persistent, or accompanied by other concerning symptoms, consult a healthcare professional for diagnosis and treatment.


Disclaimer: The information provided may not be accurate. Medibot is not liable for any inaccuracies.