Disease Name: TURBINATE HYPERTROPHY
Overview: The nasal turbinates are long, narrow passageways that help to warm and moisten the air that flows in through the nose. The turbinates are also called the nasal conchae. If the turbinates are too large, they can actually block airflow. Doctors call this condition turbinate hypertrophy. This condition can cause breathing problems, frequent infections, and nosebleeds.
Some people have three while other people have four. Most people have superior, middle, and inferior turbinates. Enlargement of the inferior and middle turbinates most commonly causes turbinate hypertrophy. Both over-the-counter and surgical treatments can treat turbinate hypertrophy.

Symptoms: Turbinate hypertrophy makes it harder for you to breathe through your nose. Some of the symptoms include:
Difficulty breathing
Congestion in alternating sides of the nose
Nasal stuffiness
Nasal blockage
Nasal congestion while lying down
Noisy breathing or breathing through the mouth during sleep
Increased nasal drainage

Causes: Turbinate hypertrophy is typically caused when the lining of the skin covering the turbinate bone becomes enlarged and swollen. This can be an acute (one time) or chronic (ongoing) problem, and can be caused by many conditions including:
Upper respiratory infection, or the common cold
Acute sinus infection
Allergic rhinitis
Non-allergic rhinitis
Chronic rhinosinusitis
Medications
Hormonal changes
Other related factors or conditions that can cause nasal blockage include a deviated septum, nasal valve collapse, and external nasal deformity, or other kind of sinus disease.

Risk Factors: Some risk factors of turbinate hypertrophy include:
Recurrent sinusitis
Nasal trauma
Nasal surgery
Pet
Poor air quality
Family history of nasal polyposis

Complications: Untreated turbinate hypertrophy can cause symptoms to get worse. A person can develop severe difficulty breathing through their nose. This makes it hard to get restful sleep. A person may also experience frequent sinus infections, which can make it difficult to be productive in school or work.

Preventions: Preventions include:
Managing allergies effectively to prevent chronic inflammation.
Avoiding irritants that can cause nasal swelling.
Using nasal sprays and medications as directed to avoid rebound effects.

Prescriptions/Medications:
Some home prescriptions include:
Make every effort to remove excess dust and pet dander from the home. This includes vacuuming carpets, pillows, drapes, and furniture to remove dust.
Place fabric-covered toys in freezer bags and leave in the freezer for 24 hours. This can help to kill allergy-causing dust mites.
Protect your mattress from dust mites by placing a dust-proof cover over the mattress.
Refrain from smoking, especially indoors.
Remove mold and mildew with specially formulated cleaners, especially in basements, bathrooms, and kitchens.

Medications: Medications include:
Fluticasone Propionate Nasal Spray 50 mcg: Two sprays in each nostril once daily.
Cetirizine 10 mg Tablets: Take one tablet by mouth once daily.
Saline Nasal Spray: Use two sprays in each nostril as needed for nasal moisture, up to six times a day.

Warning: If you experience persistent nasal congestion, difficulty breathing, or other bothersome symptoms, consult an ear, nose, and throat (ENT) specialist for diagnosis and a personalized treatment plan.

Disclaimer:  The information provided may not be accurate. Medibot is not liable for any inaccuracies.